no-value-for-parameter:46:0::No value for argument 'first_argument' in function call
too-many-function-args:47:0::Too many positional arguments for function call
no-value-for-parameter:49:0::No value for argument 'third_argument' in function call
no-value-for-parameter:51:0::No value for argument 'first_argument' in function call
no-value-for-parameter:51:0::No value for argument 'second_argument' in function call
no-value-for-parameter:51:0::No value for argument 'third_argument' in function call
too-many-function-args:53:0::Too many positional arguments for function call
no-value-for-parameter:58:0::No value for argument 'first_argument' in function call
unexpected-keyword-arg:58:0::Unexpected keyword argument 'bob' in function call
unexpected-keyword-arg:59:0::Unexpected keyword argument 'coin' in function call
redundant-keyword-arg:61:0::Argument 'one' passed by position and keyword in function call
no-value-for-parameter:66:0::No value for argument 'arg' in lambda call
no-value-for-parameter:71:4:method_tests:No value for argument 'arg' in staticmethod call
no-value-for-parameter:72:4:method_tests:No value for argument 'arg' in staticmethod call
no-value-for-parameter:74:4:method_tests:No value for argument 'arg' in classmethod call
no-value-for-parameter:75:4:method_tests:No value for argument 'arg' in classmethod call
no-value-for-parameter:77:4:method_tests:No value for argument 'arg' in method call
no-value-for-parameter:78:4:method_tests:No value for argument 'arg' in unbound method call
no-value-for-parameter:80:4:method_tests:No value for argument 'arg' in method call
no-value-for-parameter:81:4:method_tests:No value for argument 'arg' in unbound method call
no-value-for-parameter:110:8:TestStaticMethod.func:No value for argument 'first' in staticmethod call
too-many-function-args:111:8:TestStaticMethod.func:Too many positional arguments for staticmethod call
too-many-function-args:119:8:TypeCheckConstructor.test:Too many positional arguments for constructor call
no-value-for-parameter:121:8:TypeCheckConstructor.test:No value for argument 'first' in constructor call
no-value-for-parameter:121:8:TypeCheckConstructor.test:No value for argument 'second' in constructor call
no-value-for-parameter:122:8:TypeCheckConstructor.test:No value for argument 'second' in constructor call
unexpected-keyword-arg:122:8:TypeCheckConstructor.test:Unexpected keyword argument 'lala' in constructor call
no-value-for-parameter:133:8:Test.test:No value for argument 'icon' in method call
too-many-function-args:134:8:Test.test:Too many positional arguments for method call
no-value-for-parameter:136:0::No value for argument 'icon' in method call
no-value-for-parameter:163:4:no_context_but_redefined:No value for argument 'three' in function call
no-value-for-parameter:163:4:no_context_but_redefined:No value for argument 'two' in function call
no-value-for-parameter:166:4:no_context_one_elem:No value for argument 'three' in function call
no-value-for-parameter:166:4:no_context_one_elem:No value for argument 'two' in function call
unexpected-keyword-arg:202:23:namedtuple_replace_issue_1036:Unexpected keyword argument 'd' in method call
unexpected-keyword-arg:202:23:namedtuple_replace_issue_1036:Unexpected keyword argument 'e' in method call
no-value-for-parameter:215:0::No value for argument 'third' in function call
no-value-for-parameter:216:0::No value for argument 'second' in function call
unexpected-keyword-arg:217:0::Unexpected keyword argument 'fourth' in function call
