.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md, before:

<!--
Thank you for submitting a PR to pylint!

To ease the process of reviewing your PR, do make sure to complete the following boxes.

- [ ] Write a good description on what the PR does.
- [ ] Add an entry to the change log describing the change in
  `doc/whatsnew/2/2.15/index.rst` (or ``doc/whatsnew/2/2.14/full.rst``
   if the change needs backporting in 2.14). If necessary you can write
   details or offer examples on how the new change is supposed to work.
- [ ] If you used multiple emails or multiple names when contributing, add your mails
      and preferred name in ``script/.contributors_aliases.json``
-->

## Type of Changes

<!-- Leave the corresponding lines for the applicable type of change: -->

|     | Type                   |
| --- | ---------------------- |
| ✓   | :bug: Bug fix          |
| ✓   | :sparkles: New feature |
| ✓   | :hammer: Refactoring   |
| ✓   | :scroll: Docs          |

## Changelog

<!--
Provide a short summary of the change, focused on the user-facing aspects.
This summary will be included in the changelog. Please do not remove the
"changelog start" and "changelog end" lines.
-->
<!-- changelog start -->

<!-- changelog end -->

## Description

<!-- If this PR references an issue without fixing it: -->

Refs #XXXX

<!-- If this PR fixes an issue, use the following to automatically close when we merge: -->

Closes #XXXX

Commit message:

Allow multiline changelog entries and merge Pierre's CI check to make sure the PR body contains a changelog entry.

.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md, after:

<!--
Thank you for submitting a PR to pylint!

To ease the process of reviewing your PR, do make sure to complete the following boxes.

- [ ] Write a good description on what the PR does.
- [ ] Add an entry to the change log describing the change in
  `doc/whatsnew/2/2.15/index.rst` (or ``doc/whatsnew/2/2.14/full.rst``
   if the change needs backporting in 2.14). If necessary you can write
   details or offer examples on how the new change is supposed to work.
- [ ] If you used multiple emails or multiple names when contributing, add your mails
      and preferred name in ``script/.contributors_aliases.json``
-->

## Type of Changes

<!-- Leave the corresponding lines for the applicable type of change: -->

|     | Type                   |
| --- | ---------------------- |
| ✓   | :bug: Bug fix          |
| ✓   | :sparkles: New feature |
| ✓   | :hammer: Refactoring   |
| ✓   | :scroll: Docs          |

## Changelog

<!--
Provide a short summary of the change, focused on the user-facing aspects.
This summary will be included in the changelog. Please do not remove the
"changelog start" and "changelog end" lines, as they are used by the script
generating the changelog.
If your PR does not need a changelog entry, ask a contributor to add the
'skip news :mute:' label.
-->
<!-- changelog start -->

<!-- changelog end -->

## Description

<!-- If this PR references an issue without fixing it: -->

Refs #XXXX

<!-- If this PR fixes an issue, use the following to automatically close when we merge: -->

Closes #XXXX
