unsubscriptable-object:14:15::Value 'list' is unsubscriptable
unsubscriptable-object:19:25:CustomIntListError:Value 'list' is unsubscriptable
unsubscriptable-object:23:28::Value 'list' is unsubscriptable
unsubscriptable-object:25:24::Value 'list' is unsubscriptable
unsubscriptable-object:27:14::Value 'list' is unsubscriptable
unsubscriptable-object:32:36::Value 'list' is unsubscriptable
unsubscriptable-object:35:12:CustomNamedTuple2:Value 'list' is unsubscriptable
unsubscriptable-object:38:12:CustomNamedTuple3:Value 'list' is unsubscriptable
unsubscriptable-object:42:54::Value 'list' is unsubscriptable
unsubscriptable-object:44:60::Value 'list' is unsubscriptable
unsubscriptable-object:47:12:CustomTypedDict3:Value 'list' is unsubscriptable
unsubscriptable-object:50:12:CustomTypedDict4:Value 'list' is unsubscriptable
unsubscriptable-object:61:12:CustomDataClass:Value 'list' is unsubscriptable
unsubscriptable-object:65:12:CustomDataClass2:Value 'list' is unsubscriptable
unsubscriptable-object:69:12:CustomDataClass3:Value 'list' is unsubscriptable
unsubscriptable-object:74:12:CustomDataClass4:Value 'list' is unsubscriptable
unsubscriptable-object:77:6::Value 'set' is unsubscriptable
unsubscriptable-object:78:6::Value 'collections.OrderedDict' is unsubscriptable
unsubscriptable-object:79:6::Value 'dict' is unsubscriptable
unsubscriptable-object:79:16::Value 'list' is unsubscriptable
unsubscriptable-object:80:16::Value 'list' is unsubscriptable
unsubscriptable-object:81:6::Value 'dict' is unsubscriptable
unsubscriptable-object:81:11::Value 'tuple' is unsubscriptable
unsubscriptable-object:82:11::Value 'tuple' is unsubscriptable
unsubscriptable-object:83:6::Value 'list' is unsubscriptable
unsubscriptable-object:83:11::Value 'list' is unsubscriptable
unsubscriptable-object:84:12::Value 'list' is unsubscriptable
unsubscriptable-object:84:6::Value 'tuple' is unsubscriptable
unsubscriptable-object:85:12::Value 'list' is unsubscriptable
unsubscriptable-object:86:13::Value 'list' is unsubscriptable
unsubscriptable-object:87:19::Value 'list' is unsubscriptable
unsubscriptable-object:89:14:func:Value 'list' is unsubscriptable
unsubscriptable-object:92:15:func2:Value 'list' is unsubscriptable
unsubscriptable-object:95:15::Value 'list' is unsubscriptable
unsubscriptable-object:96:21::Value 'list' is unsubscriptable
unsubscriptable-object:97:19::Value 'list' is unsubscriptable
unsubscriptable-object:98:15::Value 'list' is unsubscriptable
unsubscriptable-object:99:9::Value 'list' is unsubscriptable
unsubscriptable-object:99:14::Value 'list' is unsubscriptable
unsubscriptable-object:103:20:func3:Value 'list' is unsubscriptable
unsubscriptable-object:105:33:func3:Value 'list' is unsubscriptable
unsubscriptable-object:106:11:func3:Value 'list' is unsubscriptable
unsubscriptable-object:108:14:func4:Value 'list' is unsubscriptable
unsubscriptable-object:111:16:func5:Value 'list' is unsubscriptable
unsubscriptable-object:111:32:func5:Value 'set' is unsubscriptable
unsubscriptable-object:114:75:func6:Value 'dict' is unsubscriptable
unsubscriptable-object:114:16:func6:Value 'list' is unsubscriptable
unsubscriptable-object:114:55:func6:Value 'set' is unsubscriptable
unsubscriptable-object:114:37:func6:Value 'tuple' is unsubscriptable
