**************************
  What's New In Pylint 1.3
**************************

Release date: 2014-07-26

* Allow hanging continued indentation for implicitly concatenated
  strings.

  Closes #232.

* Pylint works under Python 2.5 again, and its test suite passes.

* Fix some false positives for the cellvar-from-loop warnings.

  Closes #233.

* Return new astroid class nodes when the inferencer can detect that
  that result of a function invocation on a type (like ``type`` or
  `abc.ABCMeta`) is requested.

  Closes #205.

* Emit :ref:`undefined-variable` for undefined names when using the
  Python 3 ``metaclass=`` argument.

* Checkers respect priority now.

  Closes #229

* Fix a false positive regarding W0511.

  Closes #149.

* Fix :ref:`unused-import` false positive with Python 3 metaclasses

  Closes #143

* Don't warn with :ref:`bad-format-character` when encountering
  the 'a' format on Python 3.

* Add multiple checks for PEP 3101 advanced string formatting:
  :ref:`bad-format-string`, :ref:`missing-format-argument-key`,
  :ref:`unused-format-string-argument`, :ref:`format-combined-specification`,
  :ref:`missing-format-attribute` and :ref:`invalid-format-index`.

* Issue :ref:`broad-except` and :ref:`bare-except` even if the number
  of except handlers is different than 1.

  Closes #113

* Issue :ref:`attribute-defined-outside-init` for all cases, not just
  for the last assignment.

  Closes #262

* Emit :ref:`not-callable` when calling properties.

  Closes #268.

* Fix a false positive with unbalanced iterable unpacking,
  when encountering starred nodes.

  Closes #273.

* Add new checks, :ref:`invalid-slice-index` and :ref:`invalid-sequence-index`
  for invalid sequence and slice indices.

* Add :ref:`assigning-non-slot` warning, which detects assignments to
  attributes not defined in slots.

* Don't emit :ref:`no-name-in-module` for ignored modules.

  Closes #223.

* Fix an :ref:`unused-variable` false positive, where the variable is
  assigned through an import.

  Closes #196.

* Definition order is considered for classes, function arguments
  and annotations.

  Closes #257.

* Don't emit :ref:`unused-variable` when assigning to a nonlocal.

  Closes #275.

* Do not let ImportError propagate from the import checker, leading to crash
  in some namespace package related cases.

  Closes #203.

* Don't emit :ref:`pointless-string-statement` for attribute docstrings.

  Closes #193.

* Use the proper mode for pickle when opening and writing the stats file.

  Closes #148.

* Don't emit hidden-method message when the attribute has been
  monkey-patched, you're on your own when you do that.

* Only emit :ref:`attribute-defined-outside-init` for definition within the same
  module as the offended class, avoiding to mangle the output in some cases.

* Don't emit :ref:`unnecessary-lambda` if the body of the lambda call contains
  call chaining.

  Closes #243.

* Don't emit :ref:`missing-docstring` when the actual docstring uses ``.format``.

  Closes #281.
