deprecated-typing-alias:13:6::'typing.Dict' is deprecated, use 'dict' instead
deprecated-typing-alias:14:6::'typing.List' is deprecated, use 'list' instead
deprecated-typing-alias:16:6::'typing.OrderedDict' is deprecated, use 'collections.OrderedDict' instead
deprecated-typing-alias:17:6::'typing.Awaitable' is deprecated, use 'collections.abc.Awaitable' instead
deprecated-typing-alias:18:6::'typing.Iterable' is deprecated, use 'collections.abc.Iterable' instead
deprecated-typing-alias:19:6::'typing.Hashable' is deprecated, use 'collections.abc.Hashable' instead
deprecated-typing-alias:20:6::'typing.ContextManager' is deprecated, use 'contextlib.AbstractContextManager' instead
deprecated-typing-alias:21:6::'typing.Pattern' is deprecated, use 're.Pattern' instead
deprecated-typing-alias:22:7::'typing.Match' is deprecated, use 're.Match' instead
deprecated-typing-alias:28:9::'typing.Set' is deprecated, use 'set' instead
deprecated-typing-alias:29:9::'typing.Dict' is deprecated, use 'dict' instead
deprecated-typing-alias:29:19::'typing.List' is deprecated, use 'list' instead
deprecated-typing-alias:30:20::'typing.List' is deprecated, use 'list' instead
deprecated-typing-alias:31:9::'typing.List' is deprecated, use 'list' instead
deprecated-typing-alias:33:7::'typing.Type' is deprecated, use 'type' instead
deprecated-typing-alias:34:7::'typing.Tuple' is deprecated, use 'tuple' instead
deprecated-typing-alias:35:7::'typing.Callable' is deprecated, use 'collections.abc.Callable' instead
deprecated-typing-alias:41:74:func1:'typing.Dict' is deprecated, use 'dict' instead
deprecated-typing-alias:41:16:func1:'typing.List' is deprecated, use 'list' instead
deprecated-typing-alias:41:37:func1:'typing.List' is deprecated, use 'list' instead
deprecated-typing-alias:41:93:func1:'typing.Tuple' is deprecated, use 'tuple' instead
deprecated-typing-alias:48:20:CustomIntList:'typing.List' is deprecated, use 'list' instead
deprecated-typing-alias:52:28::'typing.List' is deprecated, use 'list' instead
deprecated-typing-alias:54:14::'typing.List' is deprecated, use 'list' instead
deprecated-typing-alias:57:12:CustomNamedTuple:'typing.List' is deprecated, use 'list' instead
deprecated-typing-alias:59:56::'typing.List' is deprecated, use 'list' instead
deprecated-typing-alias:62:12:CustomTypedDict2:'typing.List' is deprecated, use 'list' instead
deprecated-typing-alias:66:12:CustomDataClass:'typing.List' is deprecated, use 'list' instead
