consider-using-with:14:4:test_open:Consider using 'with' for resource-allocating operations
consider-using-with:24:4:test_codecs_open:Consider using 'with' for resource-allocating operations
consider-using-with:29:4:test_urlopen:Consider using 'with' for resource-allocating operations
consider-using-with:33:4:test_temporary_file:Consider using 'with' for resource-allocating operations
consider-using-with:37:4:test_named_temporary_file:Consider using 'with' for resource-allocating operations
consider-using-with:41:4:test_spooled_temporary_file:Consider using 'with' for resource-allocating operations
consider-using-with:45:4:test_temporary_directory:Consider using 'with' for resource-allocating operations
consider-using-with:49:4:test_zipfile:Consider using 'with' for resource-allocating operations
consider-using-with:50:4:test_zipfile:Consider using 'with' for resource-allocating operations
consider-using-with:54:4:test_pyzipfile:Consider using 'with' for resource-allocating operations
consider-using-with:59:4:test_pyzipfile:Consider using 'with' for resource-allocating operations
consider-using-with:66:4:test_tarfile:Consider using 'with' for resource-allocating operations
consider-using-with:72:4:test_tarfile:Consider using 'with' for resource-allocating operations
consider-using-with:81:4:test_lock_acquisition:Consider using 'with' for resource-allocating operations
consider-using-with:88:4:test_lock_acquisition:Consider using 'with' for resource-allocating operations
consider-using-with:103:4:test_lock_acquisition:Consider using 'with' for resource-allocating operations
consider-using-with:110:4:test_lock_acquisition:Consider using 'with' for resource-allocating operations
consider-using-with:120:4:test_multiprocessing:Consider using 'with' for resource-allocating operations
consider-using-with:125:4:test_multiprocessing:Consider using 'with' for resource-allocating operations
consider-using-with:130:4:test_multiprocessing:Consider using 'with' for resource-allocating operations
consider-using-with:136:4:test_futures:Consider using 'with' for resource-allocating operations
consider-using-with:140:4:test_futures:Consider using 'with' for resource-allocating operations
consider-using-with:146:4:test_popen:Consider using 'with' for resource-allocating operations
