***************************
 What's New in Pylint 2.10
***************************

:Release: 2.10
:Date: TBA

Summary -- Release highlights
=============================


New checkers
============

* Added ``unspecified-encoding``: Emitted when open() is called without specifying an encoding

  Closes #3826

* Added ``use-list-literal``: Emitted when ``list()`` is called with no arguments instead of using ``[]``

  Closes #4365

* Added ``use-dict-literal``: Emitted when ``dict()`` is called with no arguments instead of using ``{}``

  Closes #4365

* Added ``forgotten-debug-statement``: Emitted when ``breakpoint``, ``pdb.set_trace`` or ``sys.breakpointhook`` calls are found

  Closes #3692

* Added ``use-sequence-for-iteration``: Emitted when iterating over an in-place defined ``set``.


Extensions
==========

* ``CodeStyleChecker``

  * Limit ``consider-using-tuple`` to be emitted only for in-place defined ``lists``.

  * Emit ``consider-using-tuple`` even if list contains a ``starred`` expression.


Other Changes
=============

* Pyreverse - add output in PlantUML format

* pylint does not crash with a traceback anymore when a file is problematic. It
  creates a template text file for opening an issue on the bug tracker instead.
  The linting can go on for other non problematic files instead of being impossible.

* Pyreverse - Show class has-a relationships inferred from type-hints

* Performance of the Similarity checker has been improved.

* Added ``time.clock`` to deprecated functions/methods for python 3.3

* Added ``ignored-parents`` option to the design checker to ignore specific
  classes from the ``too-many-ancestors`` check (R0901).

* Don't emit ``no-member`` error if guarded behind if statement.

  Ref #1162
  Closes #1990
  Closes #4168

* Fix false positives for ``superfluous-parens`` with walrus operator, ternary operator and inside list comprehension.

  Closes #2818
  Closes #3249
  Closes #3608
  Closes #4346

* Refactor of ``--list-msgs`` & ``--list-msgs-enabled``: both options now show whether messages are emittable with the current interpreter.

  Closes #4778

* Fix false negative for ``used-before-assignment`` when the variable is assigned
  in an exception handler, but used outside of the handler.

  Closes #626

* Added ``disable-next`` option: allows using `# pylint: disable-next=msgid` to disable a message for the following line

  Closes #1682

* Added ``format-string-without-interpolation`` checker: Emitted when formatting is applied to a string without any variables to be replaced

  Closes #4042

* Added ``redundant-u-string-prefix`` checker: Emitted when the u prefix is added to a string

  Closes #4102

* Fixed ``cell-var-from-loop`` checker: handle cell variables in comprehensions within functions,
  and function default argument expressions. Also handle basic variable shadowing.

  Closes #2846
  Closes #3107

* Fixed bug with ``cell-var-from-loop`` checker: it no longer has false negatives when
  both ``unused-variable`` and ``used-before-assignment`` are disabled.
