doc/whatsnew/2.10.rst, before:

***************************
 What's New in Pylint 2.10
***************************

:Release: 2.10
:Date: TBA

Summary -- Release highlights
=============================


New checkers
============

* Added ``unspecified-encoding``: Emitted when open() is called without specifying an encoding

  Closes #3826

* Added ``use-list-literal``: Emitted when ``list()`` is called with no arguments instead of using ``[]``

  Closes #4365

* Added ``use-dict-literal``: Emitted when ``dict()`` is called with no arguments instead of using ``{}``

  Closes #4365

* Added ``forgotten-debug-statement``: Emitted when ``breakpoint``, ``pdb.set_trace`` or ``sys.breakpointhook`` calls are found

  Closes #3692


Extensions
==========

* ``CodeStyleChecker``

  * Extended ``consider-using-tuple`` check to cover ``in`` comparisons.


Other Changes
=============

* Pyreverse - Show class has-a relationships inferred from type-hints

* Performance of the Similarity checker has been improved.

* Added ``time.clock`` to deprecated functions/methods for python 3.3

* Added ``ignored-parents`` option to the design checker to ignore specific
  classes from the ``too-many-ancestors`` check (R0901).

* Don't emit ``no-member`` error if guarded behind if statement.

  Ref #1162
  Closes #1990
  Closes #4168

Commit message:

Add ``possible-f-string-as-string`` checker This checks if text in strings in between `{}`'s are variables. The var the string is assigned to is also checked for a format() call. If this does not happen, the string should probably be a f-string and a message is emitted. This closes #2507

doc/whatsnew/2.10.rst, after:

***************************
 What's New in Pylint 2.10
***************************

:Release: 2.10
:Date: TBA

Summary -- Release highlights
=============================


New checkers
============

* Added ``unspecified-encoding``: Emitted when open() is called without specifying an encoding

  Closes #3826

* Added ``use-list-literal``: Emitted when ``list()`` is called with no arguments instead of using ``[]``

  Closes #4365

* Added ``use-dict-literal``: Emitted when ``dict()`` is called with no arguments instead of using ``{}``

  Closes #4365

* Added ``forgotten-debug-statement``: Emitted when ``breakpoint``, ``pdb.set_trace`` or ``sys.breakpointhook`` calls are found

  Closes #3692

* Added ``possible-f-string-as-string``: Emitted when variables are used in normal strings in between "{}"

  Closes #2507


Extensions
==========

* ``CodeStyleChecker``

  * Extended ``consider-using-tuple`` check to cover ``in`` comparisons.


Other Changes
=============

* Pyreverse - Show class has-a relationships inferred from type-hints

* Performance of the Similarity checker has been improved.

* Added ``time.clock`` to deprecated functions/methods for python 3.3

* Added ``ignored-parents`` option to the design checker to ignore specific
  classes from the ``too-many-ancestors`` check (R0901).

* Don't emit ``no-member`` error if guarded behind if statement.

  Ref #1162
  Closes #1990
  Closes #4168
