***************************
 What's New in Pylint 2.11
***************************

:Release: 2.11
:Date: TBA

Summary -- Release highlights
=============================


New checkers
============

* Added ``consider-using-f-string``: Emitted when .format() or '%' is being used to format a string.

  Closes #3592

Removed checkers
================

* The python3 porting mode checker and it's ``py3k`` option were removed. You can still find it in older pylint
  versions.

Extensions
==========

* Added new extension ``SetMembershipChecker`` with ``use-set-for-membership`` check:
  Emitted when using an in-place defined ``list`` or ``tuple`` to do a membership test. ``sets`` are better optimized for that.

  Closes #4776

* ``CodeStyleChecker``

  * Added ``consider-using-assignment-expr``: Emitted when an assignment is directly followed by an if statement
    and both can be combined by using an assignment expression ``:=``. Requires Python 3.8

    Closes #4862


Other Changes
=============

* Added ``py-version`` config key (if ``[MASTER]`` section). Used for version dependant checks.
  Will default to whatever Python version pylint is executed with.

* The ``invalid-name`` message is now more detailed when using multiple naming style regexes.

* Fix false positive for ``consider-using-with`` if a context manager is assigned to a
  variable in different paths of control flow (e. g. if-else clause).

  Closes #4751

* Fix false positive for ``function-redefined`` for simple type annotations

  Closes #4936

* Fix false positive for ``protected-access`` if a protected member is used in type hints of function definitions

* Fix false positive ``dict-iter-missing-items`` for dictionaries only using tuples as keys

  Closes #3282

* The ``unspecified-encoding`` checker now also checks calls to ``pathlib.Path().read_text()``
  and ``pathlib.Path().write_text()``

  Closes #4945

* Fix false positive ``superfluous-parens`` for tuples created with inner tuples

  Closes #4907

* Extended ``consider-using-in`` check to work for attribute access.

* Setting ``min-similarity-lines`` to 0 now makes the similarty checker stop checking for duplicate code

  Closes #4901

* Fix a bug where pylint complained if the cache's parent directory does not exist

  Closes #4900
