***************************
 What's New in Pylint 2.14
***************************

:Release: 2.14
:Date: TBA

Summary -- Release highlights
=============================


New checkers
============

* Added new checker ``typevar-name-mismatch``: TypeVar must be assigned to a variable with the same name as its name argument.

  Closes #5224

* ``invalid-enum-extension``: Used when a class tries to extend an inherited Enum class.

  Closes #5501

* Added new checker ``typevar-double-variance``: The "covariant" and "contravariant" keyword arguments
  cannot both be set to "True" in a TypeVar.

  Closes #5895

* ``MapReduceMixin`` has been deprecated. ``BaseChecker`` now implements ``get_map_data`` and
  ``reduce_map_data``. If a checker actually needs to reduce data it should define ``get_map_data``
  as returning something different than ``None`` and let its ``reduce_map_data`` handle a list
  of the types returned by ``get_map_data``.
  An example can be seen by looking at ``pylint/checkers/similar.py``.

* Add new check ``unnecessary-dunder-call`` for unnecessary dunder method calls.

  Closes #5936

* ``potential-index-error``: Emitted when the index of a list or tuple exceeds its length.
  This checker is currently quite conservative to avoid false positives. We welcome
  suggestions for improvements.

  Closes #578

* Added new checker ``unnecessary-list-index-lookup`` for indexing into a list while
  iterating over ``enumerate()``.

  Closes #4525

* Added new message called ``duplicate-value`` which identifies duplicate values inside sets.

  Closes #5880

* Added the ``super-without-brackets`` checker, raised when a super call is missing its brackets.

  Closes #4008

Removed checkers
================

* The ``no-init`` (W0232) warning has been removed. It's ok to not have an ``__init__`` in a class.

  Closes #2409

* Removed the ``assign-to-new-keyword`` message as there are no new keywords in the supported Python
  versions any longer.

  Closes #4683


Extensions
==========

* ``DocStringStyleChecker``

    * Re-enable checker ``bad-docstring-quotes`` for Python <= 3.7.

      Closes #6087

Other Changes
=============

* Improved wording of the message of ``deprecated-module``

  Closes #6169

* ``Pylint`` now requires Python 3.7.2 or newer to run.

  Closes #4301

* Update ``invalid-slots-object`` message to show bad object rather than its inferred value.

  Closes #6101

* Fix a failure to respect inline disables for ``fixme`` occurring on the last line
  of a module when pylint is launched with ``--enable=fixme``.

* Removed the broken ``generate-man`` option.

  Closes #5283
  Closes #1887

* Fixed failure to enable ``deprecated-module`` after a ``disable=all``
  by making ``ImportsChecker`` solely responsible for emitting ``deprecated-module`` instead
  of sharing responsibility with ``StdlibChecker``. (This could have led to double messages.)

* The ``config`` attribute of ``BaseChecker`` has been deprecated. You can use ``checker.linter.config``
  to access the global configuration object instead of a checker-specific object.

  Ref #5392

* The ``level`` attribute of ``BaseChecker`` has been deprecated: everything is now
  displayed in ``--help``, all the time.

  Ref #5392

* The ``set_option`` method of ``BaseChecker`` has been deprecated. You can use ``checker.linter.set_option``
  to set an option on the global configuration object instead of a checker-specific object.

  Ref #5392

* The ``options_providers`` attribute of ``ArgumentsManager`` has been deprecated.

  Ref #5392

* The ``config`` attribute of ``PyLinter`` is now of the ``argparse.Namespace`` type instead of
  ``optparse.Values``.

  Ref #5392

* ``UnsupportedAction`` has been deprecated.

  Ref #5392

* ``OptionsManagerMixIn`` has been deprecated.

  Ref #5392

* ``OptionParser`` has been deprecated.

  Ref #5392

* ``Option`` has been deprecated.

  Ref #5392

* ``OptionsProviderMixIn`` has been deprecated.

  Ref #5392

* ``ConfigurationMixIn`` has been deprecated.

* The ``option_groups`` attribute of ``PyLinter`` has been deprecated.

  Ref #5392

* ``get_global_config`` has been deprecated. You can now access all global options from
  ``checker.linter.config``.

  Ref #5392

* ``OptionsManagerMixIn`` has been replaced with ``ArgumentsManager``. ``ArgumentsManager`` is considered
  private API and most methods that were public on ``OptionsManagerMixIn`` have now been deprecated and will
  be removed in a future release.

  Ref #5392

* ``OptionsProviderMixIn`` has been replaced with ``ArgumentsProvider``. ``ArgumentsProvider`` is considered
  private API and most methods that were public on ``OptionsProviderMixIn`` have now been deprecated and will
  be removed in a future release.

  Ref #5392

* ``interfaces.implements`` has been deprecated and will be removed in 3.0. Please use standard inheritance
  patterns instead of ``__implements__``.

  Ref #2287

* All ``Interface`` classes in ``pylint.interfaces`` have been deprecated. You can subclass
  the respective normal classes to get the same behaviour. The ``__implements__`` functionality
  was based on a rejected PEP from 2001:
  https://peps.python.org/pep-0245/

  Closes #2287

* Added the ``generate-toml-config`` option.

  Ref #5462

* ``bad-option-value`` will be emitted whenever a configuration value or command line invocation
  includes an unknown message.

  Closes #4324

* Added the ``unrecognized-option`` message. Raised if we encounter any unrecognized options.

  Closes #5259

* Fix false negative for ``bad-string-format-type`` if the value to be formatted is passed in
  as a variable holding a constant.

* The concept of checker priority has been removed.

* The ``cache-max-size-none`` checker has been renamed to ``method-cache-max-size-none``.

  Closes #5670

* The ``method-cache-max-size-none`` checker will now also check ``functools.cache``.

  Closes #5670

* ``BaseChecker`` classes now require the ``linter`` argument to be passed.

* The ``set_config_directly`` decorator has been removed.

* The ``ignore-mixin-members`` option has been deprecated. You should now use the new
  ``ignored-checks-for-mixins`` option.

  Closes #5205

* Fix false positive for ``unsubscriptable-object`` in Python 3.8 and below for
  statements guarded by ``if TYPE_CHECKING``.

  Closes #3979

* Fix false negative for ``no-member`` when attempting to assign an instance
  attribute to itself without any prior assignment.

  Closes #1555
