**************************
 What's New in Pylint 2.6
**************************

:Release: 2.6
:Date: 2020-08-20


Summary -- Release highlights
=============================


New checkers
============

* Add support to ``ignored-argument-names`` in DocstringParameterChecker and
  adds `useless-param-doc` and `useless-type-doc` messages.

* Add `empty-comment` check for empty comments.

* Add `super-with-arguments` check for flagging instances of Python 2 style super calls.

* Add `raise-missing-from` check for exceptions that should have a cause.

* Add `simplifiable-condition` check for extraneous constants in conditionals using and/or.

* Add `condition-evals-to-constant` check for conditionals using and/or that evaluate to a constant.

Other Changes
=============

* Fix linter multiprocessing pool shutdown which triggered warnings when runned in parallels with other pytest plugins.

* Enums are now required to be named in UPPER_CASE by ``invalid-name``.

* Fix bug that lead to duplicate messages when using ``--jobs 2`` or more.

* Adds option ``check-protected-access-in-special-methods`` in the ClassChecker to activate/deactivate
  ``protected-access`` message emission for single underscore prefixed attribute in special methods.

* ``inconsistent-return-statements`` message is now emitted if one of ``try/except`` statement
  is not returning explicitly while the other do.

* Fix false positive message ``useless-super-delegation`` when default keyword argument is a dictionnary.

* `bad-continuation` and `bad-whitespace` have been removed. `black` or another formatter can help you with this better than Pylint

* The `no-space-check` option has been removed, it's no longer possible to consider empty line like a `trailing-whitespace` by using clever options.

* `mixed-indentation` has been removed, it is no longer useful since TabError is included directly in python3

* Fix superfluous-parens false-positive for the walrus operator

* Add support for both isort 4 and isort 5. If you have pinned isort 4 in your projet requirements, nothing changes. If you use isort 5, though, note that the `known-standard-library` option is not interpreted the same in isort 4 and isort 5 (see `the migration guide in isort documentation`_ for further details). For compatibility's sake for most pylint users, the `known-standard-library` option in pylint now maps to `extra-standard-library` in isort 5. If you really want what `known-standard-library` now means in isort 5, you must disable the `wrong-import-order` check in pylint and run isort manually with a proper isort configuration file.

* Fix vulnerable regular expressions in ``pyreverse``. The ambiguities of vulnerable regular expressions are removed, making the repaired regular expressions safer and faster matching.

.. _the migration guide in isort documentation: https://timothycrosley.github.io/isort/docs/upgrade_guides/5.0.0/#known_standard_library
