**************************
 What's New in Pylint 2.8
**************************

:Release: 2.8
:Date: undefined

Summary -- Release highlights
=============================


New checkers
============

* New refactoring message ``consider-using-with``. This message is emitted if resource-allocating functions or methods of the
  standard library (like ``open()`` or ``threading.Lock.acquire()``) that can be used as a context manager are called without
  a ``with`` block.

* Add ``deprecated-argument`` check for deprecated arguments.

* Add new extension ``ConfusingConsecutiveElifChecker``. This optional checker emits a refactoring message (R5601 ``confusing-consecutive-elif``)
  if if/elif statements with different indentation levels follow directly one after the other.

* Add ``consider-using-min-max-builtin`` check for if statement which could be replaced by Python builtin min or max.

Other Changes
=============

* Reduce usage of blacklist/whitelist terminology. Notably, ``extension-pkg-allow-list`` is an
  alternative to ``extension-pkg-whitelist`` and the message ``blacklisted-name`` is now emitted as
  ``disallowed-name``. The previous names are accepted to maintain backward compatibility.

* The packaging is now done via setuptools exclusively. ``doc``, ``tests``, ``man``, ``elisp`` and ``Changelog`` are
  not packaged anymore - reducing the size of the package by 75%.

* The 'doc' extra-require has been removed. ``pylint.version`` is now ``pylint.__version__`` and ``__pkginfo__`` does
  not contain the package metadata anymore.

* Updated ``astroid`` to 2.5.3

* COPYING has been renamed to LICENSE for standardization.
