using-constant-test:21::Using a conditional statement with a constant value
using-constant-test:25::Using a conditional statement with a constant value
using-constant-test:28::Using a conditional statement with a constant value
using-constant-test:31::Using a conditional statement with a constant value
using-constant-test:34::Using a conditional statement with a constant value
using-constant-test:37::Using a conditional statement with a constant value
using-constant-test:40::Using a conditional statement with a constant value
using-constant-test:43::Using a conditional statement with a constant value
using-constant-test:46::Using a conditional statement with a constant value
using-constant-test:49::Using a conditional statement with a constant value
using-constant-test:52::Using a conditional statement with a constant value
using-constant-test:55::Using a conditional statement with a constant value
using-constant-test:58::Using a conditional statement with a constant value
using-constant-test:61::Using a conditional statement with a constant value
using-constant-test:66::Using a conditional statement with a constant value
using-constant-test:69::Using a conditional statement with a constant value
using-constant-test:73:test_comprehensions:Using a conditional statement with a constant value
using-constant-test:74:test_comprehensions:Using a conditional statement with a constant value
using-constant-test:75:test_comprehensions:Using a conditional statement with a constant value
using-constant-test:76:test_comprehensions:Using a conditional statement with a constant value
using-constant-test:77:test_comprehensions:Using a conditional statement with a constant value
using-constant-test:78:test_comprehensions:Using a conditional statement with a constant value
using-constant-test:82::Using a conditional statement with a constant value
using-constant-test:86::Using a conditional statement with a constant value
