unnecessary-dict-index-lookup:7:10::Unnecessary dictionary index lookup, use 'v' instead
unnecessary-dict-index-lookup:11:10::Unnecessary dictionary index lookup, use 'v' instead
unnecessary-dict-index-lookup:17:34::Unnecessary dictionary index lookup, use 'v' instead
unnecessary-dict-index-lookup:19:1::Unnecessary dictionary index lookup, use 'v' instead
unnecessary-dict-index-lookup:20:1::Unnecessary dictionary index lookup, use 'v' instead
unnecessary-dict-index-lookup:20:42::Unnecessary dictionary index lookup, use 'v' instead
unnecessary-dict-index-lookup:22:32::Unnecessary dictionary index lookup, use 'v' instead
unnecessary-dict-index-lookup:24:1::Unnecessary dictionary index lookup, use 'v' instead
unnecessary-dict-index-lookup:25:1::Unnecessary dictionary index lookup, use 'v' instead
unnecessary-dict-index-lookup:25:40::Unnecessary dictionary index lookup, use 'v' instead
unnecessary-dict-index-lookup:34:10::Unnecessary dictionary index lookup, use 'v' instead
unnecessary-dict-index-lookup:35:21::Unnecessary dictionary index lookup, use 'v' instead
unnecessary-dict-index-lookup:39:38::Unnecessary dictionary index lookup, use 'v' instead
unnecessary-dict-index-lookup:41:1::Unnecessary dictionary index lookup, use 'v' instead
unnecessary-dict-index-lookup:42:1::Unnecessary dictionary index lookup, use 'v' instead
unnecessary-dict-index-lookup:42:50::Unnecessary dictionary index lookup, use 'v' instead
unnecessary-dict-index-lookup:44:36::Unnecessary dictionary index lookup, use 'v' instead
unnecessary-dict-index-lookup:46:1::Unnecessary dictionary index lookup, use 'v' instead
unnecessary-dict-index-lookup:47:1::Unnecessary dictionary index lookup, use 'v' instead
unnecessary-dict-index-lookup:47:48::Unnecessary dictionary index lookup, use 'v' instead
unnecessary-dict-index-lookup:53:10::Unnecessary dictionary index lookup, use 'item[1]' instead
unnecessary-dict-index-lookup:56:1::Unnecessary dictionary index lookup, use 'item[1]' instead
unnecessary-dict-index-lookup:61:10::Unnecessary dictionary index lookup, use 'item[1]' instead
